First of all, i'd like to thank you for the input that a number of you
have given to this proposal. I'm presenting this on
Peter's behalf as he is currently enjoying a well earned vacation.

this document has grown sort of organically, starting off as a series
of disconnected pairwise discussions between fellows who were more or
less worrying about the same sort of things. In the absence of things
like colleges lunches, we as a fellowship seem to have lost our most
typical avenue for informal discussion. 

Ernest mentioned earler about the need for us to move at express train. 
So what we're proposing here is a discussion forum to allow us to get ahead
of the impacts of covid19 on access and admissions, by giving us a group
in which we can share concerns and best practice. Its clear that covid19 has
led to the largest crisis in higher education in generations.
we've been grappling with many of its consequences in college,
and the preparions for next term are incredibly impressive.

but one place where the effects are about to be felt perhaps even most strongly,
is in access, starting in our next admissions round and thereafter. We are proposing
here to form a discussion group to pool the mental resources of the fellowship in
order to get ahead of these very predictable problems. We are seeking a forum
in which we can consult widely so we can generate best response we can, in the
shortest possible time.

for the coming admissions round, Peter would like to draw our
attention to research already done that already show wide and widening
gaps in how schools across the socio-economic spectrum have handled
teaching since lockdown. I absolutley welcome the report from adCOM this morning,
where they are asking for a report from candidates schools about the lost schooling.
We have been talking about this over the last few weeks.

But how should we use this qualitative information in our decision making?

What else can we do to get ahead of this?

More generally, in the group we would like also to build on the
research and momentum generated particularly by Peter, Nick Cole and Nancy,
and to examine access questions like we would one of our research projects.
we can consider which quantitative measures we should be using, 
and examine the feasibility and pitfalls of running college-wide
pilots of admissions schemes such as UCASadjust.

many of us have had pairwise discussions about the benefits of post-alevel admissions,
for example. are we broadly of the opinion as a fellowship that this is a good thing? if
we do come to this decision, then how do we practically address this argument?
do we make a statement to ofqal while they are currently reviewing admissions, for example?

historically oxford university is a collection of autonomous colleges.
I do agree with Nancy that we reap tremdous benefits from belonging
to a common framework. but I also retain the view that we could come
up with something better and perhaps feed this into the higher bodies.

the specific format we propose is a meeting before term starts, which will give the tutorial
fellows a opportunity to think deeply about covid effects on access before the onslaught
of term, and give us time to act prior to our next admissions round, if we wish.

the meeting will be open to any GB fellow, and other relevant persons
who we've worked with on access, particularly as Nick Cole. the agenda will aim
to work through the various discussion points, capture the breadth of opinion
we have on the subject and consider actions. we will circulate papers prior to
the meeting and perhaps also hand out a tutorial sheet to be filled in by
attendees prior to the meeting. the final report will be present to GB for
discussion in our meeting in week 1.

I think Ernest identified this proposal immediately as a 'think-tank'. While I
would consider it a multi-disciplinary research meeting, I think perhaps it could
simultaneously be both.

One specific issue that has been raised during discussion of this is the 
relationship to this committee and for example academic committee and AAAG.
My view is that the remit of this as proposed is quite different, as is its scope.
This scheme is encouraging all fellows to attend and discuss, and focus on big
picture. So this body I think should report to a super-set of fellows, which is GB. 

After some discussion, we thought to propose our access fellow to be an excellent person
for us to chair an access discussion, though we would expect our vice gerant, academic director,
master and others to have significant prior input to help form the adgenda.

both academic and AAAG will have the report from this group for their deliberations
going forward, and GB and our usual committees can decide how we act on it.

Broadly I think this idea has the support of a number of fellows, as well
as our academic director and our master and on behalf of Peter, and I'd very much
welcome discussion on this.



















----------------------------------------


On a more personal note, one of the consequences of lockdown has been 
isolation of us all. I do think our officers have done a tremendous job
in keeping everything together during such extra-ordinary times, and I would
like to thank them again. But the informal discussions we would normally
have amongst the fellowship over lunch and so on have diminished and will continue to diminish.
So this proposal is in a sense an effort to recapitulate this mechaism to
provide a free and open forum for the fellowship to discuss access and admissions
and get ahead of the effects of covid19 on this.



We propose to hold a meeting before term starts, so that tutorial fellows
have an opportunity to give this some thought before we hit the onslaught
that this term will be. We propose to prepare a paper for week 1 GB so all
can see what was discussed. We can judge the success of the meeting and
whether it accomlished anything worth accomplishing in GB.




